An introverted socially-isolated 16-year-old boy genius builds a small nuclear device. Once his nuclear capabilities have been discovered he has to flee from secret service agents with his device. He travels mainly on foot through the city, eventually hiding in the wilderness with the assistance of militant green groups. The game explores a societal distrust of youth, perceptions of terrorism and political power and the socially unstructured pathway from adolescence to adulthood.

Setting

The game begins late one evening in the boy's family home which is surrounded by secret service agents. The boy must find a way to flee his home, with the device (hidden under his house) and escape from the secret service agents through the suburban and city areas. Eventually moving from the city to the jungle.

The game is not based in a particular location. The city environment within the game will be textured by American, European, South-East Asian and Australian cities. It is set in the present day.

Game Play

The player, from the start of the game, has the ability to venture through the whole city and surrounding suburbs. Most of the population of the city is unsupportive to the boy and act as a droid-like backdrop to his avoidance of the secret service agents and attempts to find young militants willing to assist him.

The game is played through a first person perspective interface. The player sees through the boy's eyes and has the ability to interact with the environment including talking with entities in the game. The game concludes either when the device is detonated, when the secret service agents catch the boy or when the boy 'disappears'. The victorious solution is the boy 'disappearing' which may include escaping to another country or negotiating with the secret service.

Technical

The game was originally developed by Tom Barbalet in 1998 with access to the Noble Ape Simulation. The current implementation takes source code from the original implementation and modernizes it with the existing Noble Ape Simulation.

All source code and text of this game, including this synopsis is governed by the Noble Ape Open Source License:

http://www.nobleape.com/man/legal.html