Cab Driver: drove a type horse drawn buggy known as a hansom cab which replaced hackney carriages as an early taxi service. Cab is short for cabriolet.

Cad: worked at coaching inns to look after horses (supervised by the Ostler).

Caddie: an errand boy / gofer.

Caddy Butcher: sold horse meat products.

Cafender: a carpenter.

Caffler: a Rag and Bone man or a slang term for a rogue.

Cainer: made or sold walking sticks.

Caird: a Tinker; a traveller who repaired kitchenware for cash.

Calciner: burnt bones to produce powdered lime.

Calender Operator: operated a machine with large rollers used to smooth paper for writing or printing, or to smooth cloth.

Calenderer: alternate term for a Calender Operator, who operated a machine to roll and smooth paper or cloth.

Calico Printer: a person who coloured or printed calico, a brightly coloured cloth.

Caller: alternate term for a Knocker-up, who went house to house waking up factory workers for their shifts.

Cambric Maker: wove cambric, which is a closely woven white flax cloth or linen which could be embroidered.

Camerist: unverified - according to numerous internet lists means a Lady’s Maid.


Camlet Merchant: a seller of camlet, which is a valuable cloth that may have been originally woven from goat or camel hair.

Camp Follower: a civilian who trailed after soldiers in order to sell goods or services not provided by the army.

Campaner: forged large bells for use in churches etc.

Canal Puddler: an iron worker, or someone who lined newly built canals with a coating of clay to make them watertight, and also repaired leaks.

Canaller: a canal worker.

Candler: a person who used tallow (animal fat) to produce candles.

Cane Seller: sold canes to be used for corporal punishment (to beat naughty children!)

Caner: a weaver and repairer of cane chairs.

Cantor: led a church choir.

Canting Caller: an auctioneer.

Canvaser: a producer of canvas. Sometimes spelled Canvasser.

Caper: maker of caps. Also known as a Capper.

Capillaire Maker: made capillaire, which is a clear syrup flavoured with orange flower water. Capillaire is added by confectioners to their products.

Card Maker: made the combs used for carding wool and cotton, or made the punched loom-cards used by Jacquard looms.

Card Nailer: produced or maintained the teeth (nails) on the carding machines.

Carder: carded or combed the wool / cotton between large steel combs known as Cards to align the fibres ready for spinning.

Cardroomer: a worker employed in the carding room of woollen/cotton mills.

Child Bed Linen Warehouse Dealer: kept a store of bed linen to be rented by expectant families, to be used during childbirth at home.

Chimney Sweep: swept soot from chimneys, a dangerous and low paid job often involving child labour from a very early age. A chimney sweep could have several child apprentices. Soot could be sold for use in gardens to protect plants from slugs.

China Dish Maker: worked in the pottery industry making flatware.

China Door Furniture Maker: a pottery industry worker who made finger plates and door handles from china.

Chinglor: alternate spelling for Shingler, a man who installed or maintained shingled roofing.

Chippy: nickname for a carpenter, a skilled craftsman who worked with wood.

Chiropodist: a podiatrist; a person who treated foot disorders including calluses, corns etc. The occupation is thought to date back to ancient Egypt.

Chirugeon: archaic term for a surgeon.

Chowder: a fishmonger. The occupation name derives from the archaic word Jowter.

Chronologist: keeper of historical records.

Cigar Roller: a 19th century home based occupation for people who made (rolled) cigars. By early 20th century In the US family shops made and sold cigars.

Cinder Wench: woman who collected ash produced by factories and sold it to households for use in the garden as an additive to compost.

Circuit Rider: a nickname for travelling clergy in the US who rode on horseback to preach to populations in remote areas.

Cissor: alternate term for a tailor.

City Meter: a junior or assistant Weights and Measures Inspector. The UK has had a series of Weights and Measures Acts dating back to the 18th century which were designed to ensure that traders accurately described the quantity of goods being traded.

Civil Engineer: a term used from the 18th century to describe an engineer who worked on public projects as opposed to a military engineer.

Civil Servant: held a civilian job as a crown employee. A rather vague title which does not tell us much about what the individual actually did.

Clagger: combed out knots and muck from woollen fleece.

Claker: according to a great many internet sites this means a magician or astrologer. Have yet to find evidence to confirm this.

Clapman: possibly an early term for a Town Crier, similar to Bellman. The name may be a reference to the clapper inside the bell rung by a Town Crier.

Classman: an unemployed labourer, although in other contexts the word can also refer to a classmate or a graduate in Arts in a honour class.

Claviger: a Doorman or servant. The word has a French origin, meaning key carrier.

Clay Bearer: a pottery industry worker who carried clay to the thrower or pug mill.

Clay Blunger: a pottery industry worker who tended a machine which stirred slip, a suspension of clay in water used to produce ceramics.

Clay Grinder: a pottery industry worker who operated a machine called a disintegrator.

Clower: alternate term for a Clowter or Nailor.

Clown: a peasant, villager, or a person who worked the soil.

Clowter: a Cobbler or a Nailor.

Club Collector: visited homes every week to collect payments into a savings program where people made regular small contributions towards expensive future purchases. Such schemes still exist today.

Club Proprietor: managed a member’s only clubhouse, e.g. a gentleman’s club. Such clubs date back to the 18th century.

Coachman: drove a horse drawn carriage, e.g. a hackney carriage driver.

Coachstand Waterman: an attendant stationed at a coach stand, providing water to water horses used for travel. Not to be confused with the other type of Waterman who transferred passengers over rivers in Britain.

Coal Backer: literally humped sacks of coals around on their backs as they loaded and unloaded coal barges on the canals.

Coal Burner: alternate term for a Charcoal Burner.

Coal Dealer: coal retailer.

Coal Drawer: another term for a Hurrier; a woman or child working in a coal mine, hauling carts or wagons of coal through tunnels.

Coal Driver: guided horses pulling carts of coal through coal mine tunnels. Often a job for an older child.

Coal Filler: filled corves with coal in a mine.

Coal Getter: alternate term for a Hewer in a coal mine.

Coal Heaver: responsible for unloading coal from carts once they reached the mine surface.

Coal Hewer: alternate term for a Hewer, working at the coal face in a mine.

Coal Higgler: itinerant coal seller.

Coal Hurrier: alternate term for a Hurrier, a child or woman working in a mine hauling coal.

Coal Leader: delivered or sold coal door to door. May be seen on census records as Coal Leader and Higgler.

Coal Loader: a coal miner.

Coal Master: person in overall charge of a coalmine.

Coal Porter: a physically demanding job, carrying sacks of coal.

Coal Runner: worked in a coal mine as a cart attendant.

Coal Thruster: another term for a Hurrier; a woman or child working in a coal mine, pulling carts or wagons of coal through tunnels.

Coal Trapper: child working in a coal mine, responsible for opening and closing trapdoors to allow Hurriers (Coal Drawers and Coal Thrusters) to pass along the tunnel.

Coal Trimmer: stationed inside a ship, responsible for shovelling coal around inside the hold in order to balance the load.

Coalman: drove a horse and cart along the streets, selling coal for use in domestic homes.

Coal-meter: usually a London based occupation, a licensed official responsible for measuring coal.

Coal-whipper: unloaded coal from transport ships.

Coast Surveyor: alternate term for a Coast Waiter, an early term for a customs and excise officer.

Coast Waiter: an officer working in a customs house, supervising the loading and unloading of goods for shipping.

Cotton Singer: operated a machine designed to singe cloth in order to remove lint.

Cotton Winder: worked in the textile industry, wound cotton thread.

Cotton Yarn Gasser: de-fumigated raw cotton prior to use in the textile industry. Raw cotton from India was fumigated with methyl bromide to preserve it from pests.

Cotyler: alternate spelling of Cutler, who made or sharpened cutlery including knives, swords and edged tools.

Coucher: worked in a paper mill, transferring sheets of damp pulp off wire cloth moulds and placed them onto felt blankets to speed up the drying process.

Countour: worked in a merchant's counting house.

Countryman: refers to a person living or working in the country, such as a Farmer or other agricultural worker.

Couper: an alternate spelling of Cooper, who made barrels etc., or a livestock dealer.

Couple Beggar: the common dictionary definition is one who married beggars to one another. May be a derogatory term for an itinerant priest performing marriages for the lowest classes of society.

Coupler: a railway worker who connected carriages to one another or a person working in a coal mine coupling corves together. See Corfer for further information.

Courant Boy: a boy who delivered newspapers.

Couranteer: French term for the proprietor of a newspaper, a reporter or journalist.

Coureur des Bois: a French-Canadian trapper and fur trader operating without permission in the wilder areas of North America during the late 17th and early 18th centuries.

Court Factor: alternate term for a Court Jew, a Jewish moneylender to noble houses.

Court Fool: a jester.

Court Jew: a Jewish moneylender or businessman handling the finances of non-Jewish noble houses.

Court Roller: record keeper in a court of law.

Courtier: attended the court of a monarch.

Cover Maker: worked in the pottery industry, making covers for dishes.

Cover Maker of Holloware: produced covers or lids for hollow items such as pots and kettles in the pottery industry.

Cow Herd: kept a herd of cattle.

Cow Leech: veterinarian.

Cox: abbreviation of Coxswain, a helmsman.

Coxswain: in charge of navigation and steering on a boat or ship.

Crank Maker: worked in the pottery industry, made fireclay stands by hand.

Crape Weaver: a textile industry worker who wove crape, a thin, gauzy silk or woollen fabric used for clothing. The word crape comes from the French crepe.

Crate Maker: made wooden crates used to pack pottery goods for transport.

Crayer: worked on a slow, unwieldy boat known as a cray or crare.

Crier: an official making public announcements.

Crimper: coerced (press ganged) men into service in the army or navy. Also refers to a textile industry worker who operated a crimping machine.

Crocker: medieval term for a Potter.

Croft Bleacher: worked in the textile industry, responsible for bleaching cloth.

Crofter: a tenant Farmer. Crofters date back to the early 18th century.

Cropper: alternate term for a Shearman, a textile industry worker. May also refer to farming workers.

Crowner: the original English spelling and pronunciation of coroner, an officer of the peace who inquired into mysterious or sudden deaths.

Culler: selected wares of suitable quality for market.

Cupel Maker: a Thrower in the pottery industry who made crucibles.

Cuper: alternate spelling of Cooper, a barrel maker.

Cupper: worked in the pottery industry making cups.

Curator: keeper of cultural heritage, e.g. a person working in a gallery or museum.

Curer: a doctor or physician. Also refers to person who cures tobacco, or who prepares foodstuffs such as fish and meat by salting, smoking or drying.

Curretter: an agent, Broker or Factor.

Currier: dressed leather after it is tanned.

Customer: a Customs and Excise official.

Cutler: made or sharpened knives, swords and edged tools.

Cycle Liner: decorated bicycles by hand painting lines on the sides using a fine brush.

Daguerreotype Artist: daguerreotype was a French invention; a 19th century photographic technique. The occupational title describes a photographer.

Dairyman: a worker in a dairy, or the dairy owner.

Danter: a woman working in the textile industry supervising the silk winding room.

Dauber: made walls from ‘wattle and daub’. While this practice is thought to date back 6000 years, if you find mention of it on census returns whilst undertaking genealogical research, it will likely refer to a speciality craftsman employed by wealthier home owners. The occupation died out in the 18th century with the prevalence of modern building materials.

Daunsel: a squire.

Dawber: alternate spelling of dauber, who made / repaired wattle and daub walls in wealthy houses.

Day Labourer: a generic term for a manual labourer who was paid on a daily basis. Sometimes an ancestor can have a specific occupation which is formally recorded as a Day Labourer, but is also known by a colloquial term, such as a Junky who stripped valuable parts from items in junk yards, loaded them onto horse and wagon for sale elsewhere - even though in this example pay was on a commission basis rather than an a day rate.

Day Man: a labourer employed as a casual worked, paid a fixed rate per day’s work.

Deal Porter: worked in the London docks. A dangerous and physically demanding job, stacking softwood up to 18 metres in warehouses.

Deathsman: hangman or executioner.

Decimer: represented householders at a Court Leet.

Decoyman: assisted with hunting by decoying game.

Decretist: consulted on matters of ecclesiastical law.

Delaine Weaver: worked in the textile industry. Wove fabric for female clothing.

Dempster: a judge of the shire, baron-bailie or parliament. Sometimes spelt as Demster.

Dental Mechanic: an artisan who crafted false teeth.

Depater: a refiner who worked with precious metals.

Deputy: any assistant role across many industries.

Designer: craftsman who worked in the pottery industry making moulds for clay items.

Devil: refers to a Printer’s Devil, a junior or apprentice in a printing establishment. Duties included fetching type and mixing inks.

Deviller: operated machinery in the printing industry.

Dexter: occupational name meaning ‘a Dyer of cloth’.

Dey Wife: a woman working in a dairy.

Die Sinker: a metalworker. Die sinking is the process of machining cavities into steel blocks for use in moulding.

Digger: worked in quarries or mines.

Dikeman: dug ditches and dikes. A dike is a ditch where the excavated soil has been banked up alongside in order to raise the height.

Dipper: worked in the pottery industry, glazing goods.

Dipper Glazier: alternate name for a dipper, who glazed goods in the pottery industry.

Dish Thrower: worked in the pottery industry making dishes, bowls etc.

Dish Turner: operated a lathe to make wooden bowls and the like.

Disher: short for Dish Thrower, person who made dishes and bowls.

Disintegrator Attendant: pottery worker who operated a machine called a disintegrator.

Distiller: maker of alcoholic spirits.

Distributor: a Parish official in charge distributing aid to folk in the workhouse / poorhouse.

Diviner: claimed to be able to dowse for underground water.

Dock Cooper: made barrels at a dockyard.

Dock Foyboatman: towed boats into docks / ports.

Docker: unloaded cargo at a dockyard.

Dockmaster: person in charge of docks.

Doffer: worked in the textile industry, removed full bobbins.

Dog Breaker: animal trainer.

Dog Killer: rounded up and killed stray dogs.

Dog Leech: nickname for a vet.

Dog Whipper: kept wild dogs out of the churchyard.

Domesman: a judge or umpire.

Domestic: short for Domestic Servant, sometimes abbreviated to Dom.

Domestic Servant: a household servant.

Domestic Utensil Maker: worked in the pottery industry making household items.

Dominie: Scottish name for a teacher.

Donkeyman: drove a passenger carriage.

Door Boy: lad who operated the vents in a mine.

Doorkeeper: alternate name for a doorman, who was posted at an entrance to serve or guard.

Doorman: man posted at a doorway, as a courtesy to welcome visitors, to act as a hall porter or to guard the premises.

Dorcas: another name for a seamstress.

Dottler: pottery worker who packed saggers for firing in the kiln.

Doubler: a machine operator in the textile industry twisting yarn.

Dowser: claimed to locate underground water sources by dowsing.

Dozener: alternate name for a Decimer, who represented householders at a Court Leet.

Dragman: a drag fisherman.

Dragoman: interpreted Asian languages.

Dragoon: military occupational title for a light cavalryman. Prior to 18th century, referred to mounted infantry.

Dragsman: horse-drawn carriage driver.

Drainer: dug out drainage ditches and the like.

Draper: wholesaler or retailer of cloth to be used for clothing, the occupational title sometimes includes Haberdashers.

Drapery Painter: an artist employed by a portraitist to paint clothing and accessories on their work. The occupation became popular from around the 18th century, most famous British portraitists hired Drapery Painters.

Draperyman: alternative term for a Drapery Painter, who painted costumes etc. for portraitists.

Draughtsman: undertook technical drawing, an occupation replaced by CAD systems in modern times.

Drawboy: worked in the textile industry as Weaver’s assistant.

Drawer: either a mining industry worker who moved mining carts, or a machine operator producing wire to make it suitable for use in the clock and watchmaking industries.

Drayman: drove a dray, which was a low flatbed wagon pulled by horses to transport goods. More recently it refers to deliveries of ale and beer.

Dredgerman: dredged underwater areas for diverse purposes such as harvesting shellfish, clearing out litter, creating harbours or berths, preparation for building projects such as bridges, extracting peat or flood prevention.

Dresser: several meanings, including: a wardrobe assistant for an actor, a mine worker who shaped coal, a machine operator in the textile industry, an assistant in a hospital who dressed wounds, a domestic servant who assisted the wealthy with their clothing or a worker in an iron foundry.

Dressing Case Maker: worked in the manufacture of dressing cases, which are travel cases with a hinged lid. Dressing cases were used to carry items such as hair brushes, combs, shaving mirrors, razors, shaving brushes, bottles and other toiletry products.

Dressing Machine Maker: manufactured and repaired sewing machines.

Dressmaker: female tailor or retailer of clothing.

Drift Maker: produced fishing nets.

Drillman: worked in the agriculture industry, operating a seed drill.

Dripping Man: seller of beef or pork dripping, which are animal fats traditionally used for cooking in Britain.

Driver: a person who oversaw convict work parties and slave gangs, or a train or coach driver. In the mining industry Driver refers to a Coal Driver.

Drover: drove herds of sheep or cattle to market.

Drowner: managed the irrigation of grassland to create water meadows. See Water Meadow Drowner for further information.

Drugger: alternate name for a druggist, a type of pharmacist.

Druggist: a pharmacist or apothecary.

Drummer: travelling merchant.

Dry Salter: dealt in products such as dye, glue and varnish, as well as trading in salt to be used for preserving meat.

Dry Stane Dyker: alternate name for a Dry Stone Waller. Dry stone walls are also known as dry stone dykes, rock fences and dry stone hedges.

Dry Stone Waller: built dry stone walls, which are a beautiful reminder of our past. These walls use no mortar, but instead are cleverly fashioned from shaped stones.

Dubber: cut and rubbed leather to make it smooth, or a textile worker who raised the nap on cloth.

Duffer: hawked cheap articles such as faux jewellery.

Dust Damper: worked in the pottery industry, responsible for spreading clay dust onto slabs in order to absorb moisture.

Dust Grinder: operated a disintegrator machine in the pottery industry.

Dustman: then as now, collected refuse.

Dyer: Dyed fabric. My home town of Coventry was famous for its silk dying industry, its rivers ran sky blue with waste dye, hence the association between the city and the colour Sky Blue.

Dykeman: alternate spelling of Dikeman, a digger of dikes.

Dyker: built walls or water barriers.