Ealdorman:the Chief Magistrate of a Shire. Working under control of the King, he commanded the army for the area under his control. The word comes from the phrase 'Elder Man'.

Earer: another term for a ploughman. But who would fancy asking for an earer's lunch?

Earth Stopper: worked for the Hunt, blocking up animal burrows to prevent the fox escaping its grisly fate.

East India Man: worked for The East India Company.

Edge Toolmaker: crafted metal to make edged tools and weapons such as knives etc.

Egg Factor: sold eggs or poultry.

Elephants Teeth Dealer: traded in ivory.

Ellerman: traded in lamp oil.

Elymaker: produced oil for lamps.

Empresario: commonly known as a show business term, but also referred to land brokers who granted the right to settle land in the New World.

Encaustic Ware Maker: worked in the pottery industry, producing tiles. Encaustic tiles get their colour from the clay, not from glaze.

Endholdernn: another name for an inn keeper.

Engine Cleaner: an early mechanic, who cleaned steam engines to remove ash.

Engine Keeper: an early mechanic, who not only maintained but also drove a steam engine.

Engine Smith: crafted and fitted metal engine parts.

Engine Tenter: stretched out woollen cloths to dry using a machine in a mill.

Engine Turner: engraved decorative engine-turned designs onto metal goods.

Enumerator: gathered census data, going door to door. Without these fellows, modern family tree research would be much harder!

Equerry: derived from the French word for stable, an Equerry was a senior person responsible for the care of the horses of a person of standing. These days the word refers to a personal assistant for a member of a Royal family.

Eremite: a recluse. This includes people living alone in accordance with religious vows.

Esquire: the companion to a noble, gentleman or to a knight in earlier times.

Estafette: a courier who delivered messages on horseback. Derived from French.

Eweherd: another name for a shepherd.

Exchequer: everyone's favourite person, a tax collector.

Exciseman: another popular person, collected tax on imported goods.

Executor: executes a person's last will and testament.

Executrix : the term for a female Executor, who executed wills and testaments.

Expressman : a wagon driver who delivered parcels and mail.

Eyer: another name for a Holer, who was responsible for making the holes in sewing needles through which thread can be passed.

Faber: a smith, craftsman or iron worker. Faber is Latin for 'Craftsman', but the title may also derive from the French name Febre meaning 'smith'.

Fabricator: a generic term for a person who made goods.

Fabricshearer: pleated fabric and trimmed nap for customers.

Factor: an agent or broker, who bought and sold goods for commission, or a mercantile agent who bought and sold goods on behalf of another. In Scotland a Factor managed a property or estate on behalf of the owner or landlord.

Factor Agent: alternate term for a factor, who bought and sold goods on behalf of another.

Factory Boy: a young boy working in a factory performing low responsibility tasks, often quite dangerous ones.

Factory Labourer: performed manual work in a factory or trading post.

Factory Packer: a factory worker who packaged manufactured goods into crates for storage or transport.

Fagetter: sold firewood. Derives from the word ‘faggot’ which was an archaic measurement for a bundle of branches or sticks.

Faker: the person who added fake colours to black and white photographs.

Falkner: a falconer who breeds and trains falcons or hawks.

Famulus: a Scholar’s attendant.

Fancy Man: a pimp, procuring or pandering prostitutes.

Fancy Pearl Worker: a craftsman who made items out of nacre, also known as mother of pearl. Nacre was commonly used to make buttons, and to decorate items such as knives, guns, jewellery and watches.

Fancy Woman: a working girl or prostitute.

Fanner: separated grain from chaff (winnowing). From 1837 a winnowing machine called a Fanner was developed in Scotland and widely sold.

Fanwright: made fans or baskets for winnowing grain. From the early 18th century winnowing machines used a rotary fan to generate wind for separating grain from chaff.

Farandman: an itinerant pedlar or merchant.

Farm Bailiff: collected rent from tenant farmers and inspected their work.

Farm Grieve: found in Scottish census records, a manager on a farm overseeing the work of other workers.

Farmer: then as now, worked in agriculture. May have owned the land or been a tenant farmer.

Farrier: specialised in caring for horses hooves, including making and fitting horse shoes, trimming hooves and general medical care.

Faunist: studied fauna (animals).

Fear-Nought Maker: produced fear-nought, also spelt 'fearnaught'. This was a heavy woollen cloth used to make warm jackets and overcoats.

Feather Beater: responsible for cleaning feathers which would then be sold.

Gabeler: collected gabels, such as taxes, duty, service charges or rent.

Gaffer: implies a man with seniority, due to age or being in charge of others.

Gaffman: a Bailiff, or a maker of gaffs for landing fish.

Gager: alternative spelling of Gauger.

Gamekeeper: managed areas of countryside such as woodland, waterways and moorland to maintains stocks of game and fish for hunting and fishing.

Gamester: a professional gambler, or a euphemism for a prostitute.

Ganger: foreman of a work gang, which refers to a group of labourers.

Gangsman: alternative name for a Ganger.

Ganneker: an innkeeper.

Ganter: another name for a Gaunter. Gant is an old French word for glove.

Gaoler: the English spelling of Jailor.

Garcifer: stable boy or groom.

Garlekmonger: a garlic merchant.

Garthman: kept livestock. Garth refers to a grassed, enclosed area such as a paddock.

Gas Fitter: installed gas lamps prior to the availability of electric lighting.

Gas Maker: burned coal to produce gas for fuel.

Gas Stoker: burned coal to produce gas for fuel.

Gasser: worked in the textile industry, ‘gassing’ threads.

Gater: abbreviation for a gatekeeper.

Gatherer: worked in a glass making. Also, a possible abbreviation for a rag gatherer in the textile industry.