Haberdasher: sold sewing articles, such as needles, buttons, thread, ribbons etc. A very old occupation, possibly dating back to the 14th century when habadashers were travelling Pedlars.

Hacker: made cutting tools, such as scythes and billhooks. Can also refer to a person who used cutting tools, such as a carpenter.

Hackler: worked in the textile industry, used a board with long metal teeth sometimes known as a hackle for dressing flax, jute, hemp etc.

Hackman: variation of hackler, a person who used a hackle for dressing materials such as flax etc.

Hackney Man: an early type of taxi driver; drove a horse drawn carriage for hire.

Haft Presser: a local occupational title in the Sheffield area. A specialist knife maker who pressed horn or bone into knife hafts.

Haggler: a travelling pedlar.

Hair Weaver: wove cloth from horse hair.

Hairman: alternate name for a Hair Weaver, who wove cloth from horse hair.

Halberd Carrier: alternate name for a Halberdier, an infantryman armed with a two handed polearm known as a halberd.

Halberdier: an infantryman armed with a halberd, a two handed polearm prominently used during the 14th and 15th centuries. In later centuries was used for ceremonial purposes.

Half Timer: a child who divided their time between working in the mills and being educated.

Halter: made halters for leading horses or livestock.

Hammerman: refers to a Smith or Forgeman (a person who hammers metal).

Hand: a hired labourer.

Handler: a pottery industry worker who specialised in making cup handles.

Handmaid: a female attendant or female servant.

Handseller: refers to any street Hawker of Pedlar.

Handwoman: a midwife or an alternate term for a handmaid.

Handyman: a man who was skilled in a variety of small practical jobs such as small maintenance and repair work.

Hanger-on: alternate term for an Onsetter working in a coal mine.

Hansard: a very early occupation, made daggers, sword and hand knives.

Happer: a fairground acrobat or a person who worked in salt making.

Harlot: a prostitute, or a male or female person of low class.

Harmer Beck: according to numerous online lists this means a Constable.

Harness Maker: made horse harnesses to allow horses to pull carriages.

Harper: a Musician who played the harp.

Hat Blocker: worked in hat making. Mounted hats on shaped wooded blocks and held it over steam in order to shape the hat.

Hat Furrer: a specialist in the hat making trade who added fur to hats.

Iceman: a door to door ice merchant.

Idleman: a person living on their own means.

In-bye Worker: miner working at the coalface. Possibly a regional term from Northeast England.

Indentured Servant: a Labourer contracted to an employer for a fixed number of years in exchange for essentials such as food, shelter and clothing. Similar to a slave, but for a limited time period.

Infirmarer: worked in an infirmary tending to the ill.

Infirmarian: another name for an infirmarer.

Inspector of Nuisances: worked for the Council or Parish to inspect the area for nuisance offences such as insanitary conditions or obstructed roadways.

Intelligence Office: in the UK refers to an employment agency for Domestic Servants. Believe that in the US this refers to a non-specific employment office or agency.

Intelligencer: a spy.

Intendent: held a public administrative office.

Interfactor despite being listed all over the internet as meaning the old occupational title for a 'murderer', I do not consider this to be a recognised trade or occupation and have yet to see it on a census return!

Iron Charger: foundry worker who kept a smelting furnace loaded with iron ore.

Iron Dresser: worked in foundry cleaning cast metal and moulds.

Iron Founder: a foundry worker who cast (founds) iron.

Iron Miner: a miner who collected ironstone rock as a raw material for foundry use.

Iron Moulder: a foundry worker who made moulds for casting iron.

Iron Puddler: a skilled craftsman who worked in a foundry making wrought iron.

Iron Roller: operated machinery to roll and shape iron.

Iron Shingler: processed wrought iron as it was removed from the furnace.

Iron Turner: a lathe operator who made items from iron.

Iron Weigher: a foundry worker responsible for weighing iron products so they could be sold, usually by imperial tons.

Ironmaster: the person who managed or owned a foundry.

Ironmonger: a retailer, wholesaler or distributor of iron goods.

Iron Smith: a Blacksmith.

Itinerant Artist: a travelling portrait painter. Journeyed across remote areas of the US on horseback to distant communities carrying canvases of partially completed busts, upon which they would paint customer's faces. Also painted miniatures.

Itinerant Preacher: a preacher in the US who travelled on horseback from home to neighbouring communities to minister to their religious needs. Performed baptisms, marriages etc.

Ivory Merchant: a person who produced retail goods out of ivory, or who sold ivory as a raw material.

Jack: frequently refers to a sailor, or a nickname for anyone called John. Also a general term for a young male servant or a young man working in any occupation. The latter may be a derogatory term similar to knave.

Jack Frame Tenter: worked in a Card Room in the weaving industry. Operated a jack frame machine which twisted threads.

Jack Smith: archaic term for a Smith who fashioned coats of armour out of chain or leather. May also refer to someone who made machinery to replace the work of a Jack - a young man or boy.

Jack Tar: popular term for a sailor. May derive from wearing waterproof clothing made from tarpaulin, or from tarring clothes in order to make them waterproof. A common practice amongst sailors was to wear their hair in a ponytail and coated with tar. May also be recorded as 'jack afloat'.

Jacquard Operator: worked in the weaving industry in charge of a jacquard loom.

Jagger: a Carter (transporting goods) or Pedlar.

Jailor: a guard working in a gaol or jail.

Jakes Farmer: man who emptied the privy.

Jappaner: applied layers of heavy black lacquer to wooden furniture, pottery or ironwork. The result could be polished for decoration. When used with ironwork the result was also rustproof.

Jenny: another alternate spelling of Ginny, worked in the mining industry operating a ginny carriage.

Jerquer: a customs officer who inspected ships for smuggled goods.

Jersey Comber: combed wool to separate the finest yarn from the rest.

Jigger: worked in the pottery industry, shaped the outside of flatware pottery on a revolving mould.

Jigger Turner: a junior job in the pottery industry, rotated jiggers by hand.

Jinny: alternate spelling of Ginny, who worked in the mining industry operating a ginny carriage which was small railway truck used for transporting materials.

Job Coachman: based in a livery or stable, drove coach and horses for the rich and wealthy for the duration of a contract.

Job Master: hired out horse drawn carriages for domestic use.

Job Printer: undertook miscellaneous small printing jobs.

Jobber: a trader who bought goods from wholesalers to sell on to retailers for a profit. Also refers to a Piece Worker. The word 'jobbing' may be prefixed before another occupation which indicates they were being paid for a job of work.

Jobbing Man: an Odd Job Man who undertook many and varied small tasks.

Joiner: a highly skilled carpenter capable of perfectly joining wood together without the use of nails, screws, glue etc. Commonly worked in the construction or furniture making industries..

Jollier: worked in the pottery industry.

Jongleur: a travelling entertainer, such as a folk singer, conjuror or juggler.

Journeyman: a craftsman or trader who has not become a Master, but has completed their apprenticeship. Usually employed by a Master. In older use a journeyman was hired on a daily basis. The term may be suffixed by the name of the occupation they worked in.

Jouster: a woman mounted on horseback, travelling town to town peddling fish.

Jowter: alternate term for a Jouster, archaic term for a Chowder or Fishmonger.

Joyner: alternate spelling of Joiner, a highly skilled carpenter.

Junky: alternate name for a Day Labourer, who worked at a junk yard stripping valuable parts from discarded items, e.g. copper. He then transported these by horse and cart to sell elsewhere. Was paid on a commission basis.

Justiciar: an officer of the King's court, a person who operated their own court of law, or a judge in shire courts.

Juveler: Danish term for a jeweller.

Kedger: a fisherman. Related to the word 'kedge', which is a nautical term for a small anchor.

Keeker: a weighman in a colliery, responsible for quality control.

Keeler: worked on canal barges delivering goods.

Keelman: another name for a Keeler.

Keller: a maker of caps (comes from the word kellere). Most free online resources list this occupation as a salt keeper.

Kellogg: worked in the food industry, slaughtered animals.

Kempster: worked in the textile industry, combed cotton or wool.

Kepegest: another name for an innkeeper.

Key Stamper: Key Stampers added various messages to keys. Messages were stamped into the surface of keys. For example, the name of the institution to which the key belonged, or phrases such as 'Do not copy'.

Kiddier: a trader who dealt in goatskins, or a goat trader.

Kilner: worked in the ceramics / pottery industry, was in charge of pottery kilns.

Kirk-master: a Scottish term for a church Deacon. (Kirk translates to English as Church).

Kisser: an Armourer.

Kitchen Maid: a kitchen assistant, usually supervised by the Cook.

Kitchen Porter: a junior kitchen assistant.

Knacker: worked in a Knacker's Yard or Knackery, where animals unfit for human consumption were rendered. Sometimes called a knackerman.

Knight: a warrior in Middle Age Europe. Often popularised and romanticised in fiction. May have been employed by a Lord, or belonged to a recognised Order.

Knapper: shaped or dresses stone such as flint or obsidian to make tools. Also includes dressing the flints used in the construction of flintlock rifles and pistols.

Kneller: a Chimney Sweep who went from house to house touting for business.

Knock Knobbler: an old name for a dog warden, who caught stray dogs.

Knocker-up: roused factory workers for their shifts, but knocking on their bedroom windows with a stick. Sometimes also worked as a Lamplighter.

Knoller: a bellringer.

Knuller: another name for a Kneller, who swept chimneys.