Labourer: performed physical labour. Could have worked in many different industries. It is very common to come across labourers when researching a family tree.

Lace Drawer: worked in the lace making industry. Usually a child’s job, responsible for drawing threads.

Lace Man: a merchant who sold raw materials to home based workers, then peddled the lace goods they made.

Lace Master: employer of lace workers.

Lace Mistress: female Lace Master, who employed lace workers.

Lace Runner: embroidered lace items.

Lace Woman: alternate name for a Lady’s Maid.

Ladle Liner: repaired the ladles used to move molten metals.

Lady’s Maid: a personal attendant who waited on the Lady of the House. A servant responsible for make-up, shopping, clothes, jewellery etc.

Lady’s Tailor: seamstress or Dressmaker.

Lagger: alternate name for a sailor.

Lagraetman: Constable.

Laird: Scottish title, a member of the gentry.

Lairman: transported cattle to temporary holding pens prior to slaughter.

Lairsman: alternate spelling of Lairman, who transported cattle to lairage.

Lamp Exhauster: drained air from very early electric lightbulbs.

Lamp Trimmer: maintained oil lamps onboard ships. Large vessels required multiple Lamp Trimmers.

Lamplighter: Council employee who lit street gas lamps or an alternate term for a Knocker-up

Landing Waiter: worked for HM Customs overseeing the unloading of ship’s cargo. Seems to have been a popular job for the ex-military.

Lapidary: an expert on precious stones, who also engraved them.

Lappet Maker: a textile worker who made lappets, which are embroidered folds or flaps, used for clothing / hats.

Lardner: supplied meat to landowners and royalty in medieval times.

Laster: cobbler.

Lath Renderer: applied plaster to laths, which are strips of straight grained wood used to line walls and ceilings.

Lath Splitter: made wooden laths.

Latten Smith: made items from the alloy latten. By the early 19th century, latten was mainly used for decorative purposes.

Lattener: alternate name for a Lattern Smith, who made items from the alloy latten.

Lattouner: alternate spelling of Lattener.

Machine Boy: worked in the printing industry, a Printer's Assistant.

Machine Breaker: not an occupation, but a term you might find in historical documents. It refers to a Luddite, a member of a 19th century social movement who violently resisted the introduction of machine technology in the textile industry.

Machine Man: generic term for a man who operated a machine; a machinist.

Maderer: listed on numerous internet sites as a person who collected garlic for sale. Have yet to find evidence to confirm this.

Maid: as an occupational title it refers to a female Domestic Servant. If the term is found in other contexts it may refer to an unmarried girl.

Mail Agent: an employee of the Royal Mail responsible for the safe delivery of mail whilst in transit by ship.

Mail Guard: an officer employed to guard mail during transport by train or coach.

Majolica Maker: a pottery industry worker who made ceramic items finished with majolica glaze. Popular in 19th century England.

Maker: worked in the pottery industry, making hollowware on a potters wheel.

Maker-Upper: worked in the textile industry.

Male-Maker: made leather travelling bags.

Mallender: a corn Miller.

Malster: alternate term for a Maltster, who produced malt for use in brewing.

Maltster: worked in a malthouse, soaked grain in water to make malt, which was used for brewing etc.

Manchester Warehouse Man: traded wholesale cloth and linen produced in factories from the Manchester area.

Manciple: responsible for purchasing food, and possibly the preparation of food, for a court, monastery or other institution.

Mangle Keeper: charged housewives for the use of her mangle (wringer) to press linen and cloth.

Mangle Woman: alternate term for a Mangle Keeper, a woman who kept a mangle for hire.

Mangler: operated a mangle, a machine to press cloth or linen. The US name for a mangle is a wringer.

Mango: Latin term which could mean refer to a slave trader or slave dealer, or more generally to a dealer in any product.

Mantle Cutter: may refer to a stone cutter who produced mantles for fireplaces, a person who made mantles from cotton soaked in nitrates to be fitted to gas lamps or a person who made a type of cloak called a mantle, which was worn over other clothes.

Mantle Maker: a person who made mantles from cotton soaked in nitrates to be fitted to gas lamps.

Mantua Maker: made female clothing called a mantua, which was a loose gown or robe worn with a petticoat. Popular from the late 1600s through to the 1700s.

Marble Polisher: possibly a stonemason. May refer to a person who polished stone for fire surrounds or for use in construction.

Marbler: may refer to someone working in the paper making industry who stained paper to produce a marble effect. The term can also generically refer to anyone who stained items in order to produce a marbled effect. This includes marbling stone in order to produce faux marble for use in churches and other buildings.

Nailor: cleaned and maintained the teeth on a weaver's carding machine, or a metalworker who produced nails.

Naperer: a Domestic Servant responsible for the washing and storage of linen used for household purposes, e.g. table linen.

Napier: an alternative term for a Naperer, who looked after household linen.

Narrow Weaver: a Weaver who produced tapes and ribbons.

Navigator: a Labourer on civil engineering projects, such as railroads, roads and canals. Often an immigrant.

Navvy: an abbreviation of Navigator; a labourer on civil engineering projects, such as railroads, roads and canals.

Naylor: an alternate spelling of Nailor.

Neatherd: a cowherd who cared for neat cattle.

Neatsfoot Oil Dealer: sold neatsfoot oil, made from boiling the feet of neat cattle. The oil was used as a machine lubricant, or to treat leather.

Necessary Woman: a Domestic Servant who had the delightful job of washing and emptying chamber pots.

Necker: operated a box making machine.

Nedeller: person who made needles.

Needle Pointer: a person who filed the points of needles for a Nedeller, or an embroiderer.

Netter: person who made nets.

Night Soilman: had the thoroughly pleasant job of emptying 'night soil' from middins - outside toilets and cess pits. Usually worked through the night.

Nightman: another name for a Night Soilman. Such a great job needs more than one title to choose from.

Nightwalker: a night watchman.

Nimgimmer: a pox doctor.

Nipper: a junior who carried goods for a Carter. Someone's got to do all the heavy lifting.

Nit Picker: removed lice from the hair of the infested.

Nob Thatcher: made wigs for the rich, powerful and vain.

Noon Tender: a dockside security guard who protected goods while everyone else was off enjoying their lunch.

Notary: a public official who notarises (authenticates) legal documents.

Noterer: alternative name for a Notary.

Nun: a woman who has taken religious vows.

Nurse Child: a paid foster parent.

Oakum Worker: recycled old ropes for hemp fibre, which was driven into gaps between planks of wood in boats, in order to make boats waterproof.

Odd Man: generic term for a Labourer.

Oil Colour Man: manufactured paint, responsible for mixing the required colouring.

Oil Miller: extracted oil from seeds. Some seed, such as linseed and rapeseed were grown in England, other seeds were imported.

Oiler: a person responsible for keeping machinery lubricated. May have worked on factory machinery, or with engines.

Oilman: a tradesman who sold oil for use in lamp lighting.

Olitor: a gardener who maintained the kitchen garden, or potager. The kitchen garden was used to grow food for domestic consumption.

Oliver Smith: a smith who used an oliver hammer. Similar to a treadle hammer, the oliver hammer was a foot operated mechanical device for hammering metal.

Onsetter: attached full corves (tubs) or detached empty corves at the bottom of a coal mine shaft, or who transferred corves into and out of cages at stopping places within a coal mine.

Orderly: assists medical staff in a hospital, or the servant of a military officer.

Ordinary Keeper: an innkeeper.

Ordinary Seaman: an 18th century rank in the Royal Navy with one to two years experience.

Orrery Maker: An orrery is a mechanical device showing the positions and orbits of planets and moons in the solar system. The earliest known example dates back 2000 years or more to the Greek Antikythera. The Orrery Maker produced these interesting items. An expansion to the video game Oblivion famously featured an orrery.

Orrice Weaver: wove / embroidered orrice, which was a type of golden lace popular in the 18th century.

Osier Peeler: peeled bark from willow, which could then used for making goods such as woven baskets. Osier means willow, withy is a willow stem. English thatched cottages are made from withy. Withy is also used in gardening. The term withy can refer to any flexible rod used in rural crafts.

Osler: caught birds.

Osnard: derived from ox-herd; a 'shepherd of oxen'.

Ostiary: a monk who kept the monastery door.

Ostler: the original and more common meaning is the person who tended horses at an inn. This definition dates back to the 12th century. Occasionally Ostler / Hostler means the innkeeper himself. The word Ostler is still in use today, referring to a stable groom who cares for horses.

Out Crier: a Herald, Crier, or auctioneer.

Outdoor Worker: a Labourer working the land. I often come across this term when searching census records.

Outrider: a mounted escort accompanying a carriage or group on a journey.

Outworker: in the textile industry, weavers working from home were called outworkers. They were paid for piece-work for the goods they produced. The term outworker can also refer to any home based worker.

Overlooker: another textile industry term, the overlooker supervised work in a textile mill.

Overman: performed quality control in a coal mine, and supervised the miners.

Overseer: a generic term for a supervisor.

Owler: smuggled wool or sheep from England to France. The practice of owling was illegal in England in order to protect the English textile industry. England had a good supply of wool and sheep, but its textile industry relied upon protectionist law because it could not compete with foreign imports.

Oyster Dredger: fishing industry term for a man working on an oyster boat.

Oyster Hawker: an 18th or 19th century equivalent of a kebab van, the oyster hawker sold pickled lobsters in public places.

Pack Thread Spinner: a machine operator in the textile industry making thread.

Packer: a factory worker packaging goods for transit or storage.

Packing Casemaker: made boxes / crates for storage of goods in transit.

Packman: a travelling merchant.

Pad Maker: made measuring baskets for use by market-gardeners to quantify amount of stock in bushels, pecks etc.

Page: a young male servant.

Painter: generic term for a person who paints. Could refer to a sign painter, an artist, or any person who paints items.

Paintress: female pottery worker who painted pottery by hand.

Paling Man: Eel seller.

Palister: a groundsman or park keeper.

Palmer: a Christian pilgrim who had visited the Holy Land and brought back a palm leaf folded into a cross. I first came across this term in a 1950s children's book about Robin Hood, where it appeared to be used as a generic term for a pilgrim.

Paneler: a Saddler.

Pannarius: Latin name for a Clothier.

Pannier Man: fish merchant.

Pannifex: seller of woollen cloth.

Pansmith: the person who made the pans used for open-pan salt making, or a generic term for a person who made and repaired cooking pans.

Panter: in a noble household the person in charge of the pantry, or in earlier times in charge of the provision of bread. This later became part of a Butler's job.

Pantile Polisher: worked in the pottery industry, brushing slip onto pantiles (roofing tiles).

Pantler: similar to Panter, the person in charge of the pantry.

Pantographer: operated a pantograph, a device used to draw a replica of an image by tracing lines. Used in the engraving process.

Paper Colourer: worked in a paper mill adding pigment to paper.

Paper Cutter: cut paper to size during the manufacturing process.

Paper Dealer: a merchant selling paper.

Paper Factor: a merchant selling paper.

Paper Hanger: hanged wallpaper.

Paper Presser: clamped and pressed wet paper as part of its manufacture.

Paper Stainer: coloured paper by machine or by hand. The paper was commonly used as wallpaper.