Quarantine: a type of Customs Officer responsible for ensuring that overseas travellers remained offshore on quarantine vessels.

Quarrel Picker: cut and installed glass windows etc.

Quarrerius: a stone cutter.

Quarrier: worked in a quarry.

Quarry Man: worked in q quarry - alternate name for a Quarrier.

Quassillarius: a merchant or pedlar.

Quay Clerk: performed administrative duties at a quay or wharf, where passengers or goods were unloaded.

Queensware Potter: a maker of fine pottery.

Quencher: cooled red hot materials in water in the coke making industry.

Quiller: a machine operator in the textile industry, responsible for winding yarn.

Quillwright: a Wheelwright / Wainwright, who built or repaired wheels.

Quilter: man who made quilted cloth.

Quiltress: female maker of quilted cloth.

Quister: bleached textiles.

Quizzing Glass Supplier: made or sold monocles.

Qwylwryghte: alternate spelling of Quillwright, meaning a Wainwright.

Rack Maiden: a female working in a Cornish tin mine. She was responsible for dressing ore, which involves separating the valuable minerals so they can be smelted.

Raff Merchant: sold raffia fibres, which are harvested from Raffia palm trees. The fibre could be used in the textile industry, for example making bags. An early use for raffia was the manufacture of rope.

Raffia Man: made and / or sold goods made from raffia.

Raffman: an old type of rag and bone man, who salvaged items from discarded rubbish and sold them to the poor.

Rag Cutter: worked in the paper making industry, responsible for cutting up rags into small pieces. The rags would then be disintegrated and beaten into pulp by other workers.

Rag Gatherer: a dangerous job usually performed by agile children. It involved darting under moving machinery to collect rags and remnants before the machinery swung back at them. Accidents and maiming were common.

Rag Man: an abbreviation of 'Rag and Bone Man'.

Rag and Bone Man: traditionally drove a horse-drawn cart around the city collecting junk. Old rags were used for papermaking. Animal bones could be used to manufacture glue. Other items could be traded.

Rag Picker: sorted through rags to identify suitable rags for use in papermaking.

Rag Sorter: cut off the buttons from old clothing, removed any ribbons and lace, then ripped the seams, then sorted the rags by type.

Rag-stabber: an old slang term for a tailor.

Railroad Porter: a railroad worker employed to assist passengers with luggage etc.

Raker: old term for a street cleaner.

Ratoner: old title for a rat and vermin catcher.

Rattlewatch: slang term for a city Watchman.

Reacher for Drawing: an old occupation in the textile industry, to do with the weaving of silk or cotton. I suspect this old occupation title might actually have been 'Reacher'.

Reaper: don't fear, its just an agricultural worker bringing in the harvest.

Rectifier: repeatedly distilled ethanol to produce rectified spirit. This product could be used for medicinal purposes, or for producing liqueurs or mixed drinks.

Redar: for a fee a Redar would interpret your dreams.

Red Leader: in order to protect metal (e.g. from rust), the Red Leader would paint lead oxide paint onto the metal. The red colouring of the lead oxide gave this old occupation its name.

Redsmith: an alternative name for a Goldsmith.

Reeder: thatched roofs using reeds.

Reedmaker: produced reeds for musical instruments, or more commonly this old occupation definition is a person who produced reeds for the weaving / textile industry.

Reeler: another weaving related occupation, a Reeler operating a winding machine which put yarns onto bobbins.

Reeve: in archaic times, a Reeve was a serf elected to supervise lands for a Lord, ensuring the Lord was not cheated by the serfs. The role evolved into policing crime. The term 'Sheriff' is thought to have evolved from 'Shire Reeve'. The old occupation title 'Reeve' also included Churchwardens.

Reever: another term for a Reeve.

Regarder: old term for a land surveyor. Particularly related to boundaries and woodlands.

Registrar: legally registered births, deaths, marriages etc.

Relict: a survivor or widow.

Relief Stamp Maker: carved details onto hand stamps used to authenticate documents.

Sacristan: in charge of a sacristy, which is a church room for storing Parish records, vestments, church furnishing etc. Note – other religious buildings may also have had a sacristy, e.g. a monastery.

Sad Iron Grinder: worked in the manufacture of sad irons. Also known as solid irons, sad irons were handheld irons used by households until the mid 20th century to iron clothing. Made from cast iron, they were first heated and then used to press clothing over a flat surface. The sad irons I have encountered are significantly heavier than modern electric irons, which replaced them decades ago.

Saddle Tree Maker: produces the wooden frame for a horse saddle. The tree is customised to fit the size of horse and rider, and eventually covered with stretched leather.

Saddler: a tradesman who made horse saddles for sale, or repaired and maintained saddles.

Safernman: possibly an archaic spelling of 'Saffron Man', a seller of saffron. Saffron is an expensive spice derived from the Saffron Crocus, and is used to flavour food.

Saggar Maker: producer or seller of saggars. A saggar is a box-like fire clay container used to enclose pots which need protection whilst themselves being fired in the kiln, shielding them from heat variations.

Salinator: person who salted food. Salt was often added to food as a preservative.

Saloonist: ran a saloon, which in Britain was part of a pub (public house).

Salt Boiler: boiled sea water to produce salt. As the water boils away to steam, salt is left behind.

Salter: supplier of salt.

Saltpetre Man: produced or sold saltpetre. Saltpetre was produces by mixing soil, mortar or wood ashes and manure with organic materials such as straw. The mound was kept moist with urine for a year. A smelly job!

Sandesman: a messenger, envoy or ambassador.

Sandwasher: I found this occupational title in the 1901 census, it refers to a person employed at a water works. Water was filtered through sand as part of the purification process.

Sarcenet Weaver: worked in the textile industry weaving silk. The word is sometimes spelt 'sarcennett' or 'sarcinet'.

Savant: a Scholar. Comes from the French word ‘savoir’, meaning ‘knowing. You might come across this word as a misspelling of ‘servant’ when researching your family tree.

Sawbones: a slang term for a surgeon. Ever wondered how the character 'Bones' Star Trek got his name?

Sawer: spelling variation of Sawyer (see below), meaning a person who sawed wood.

Sawyer: used a saw to cut wood. May have been employed in the timber industry, or in other areas of manufacturing.

Say Weaver: a textile industry worker who wove material for tablecloths.

Scabbler: shaped stone into squares using a hammer or axe.

Scagiola Maker: made scagiola out of selenite (gypsum) and glue. Scagiola is used to decorate buildings, columns, statues etc.

Scaleraker: an alternate name for a scavenger - a street cleaner, dustman or a child working in the textile industry.

Scavelman: maintainer of ditches, canals and rivers.

Scavenger: sometimes called a scaffie, a scavenger was a dustman or street cleaner. Also, in the textile industry, the term scavenger referred to children employed in the highly dangerous job of darting under moving industrial machinery to snatch up waste material. A mistake could result in serious injury or death for the child.

Scholar: a child attending school. This term commonly shows up in census records. The child may only be attending school on a part-time basis.

Schoolmarm: alternate term for a Schoolmistress, a woman teaching in or running a school.

Schoolmaster: a man who taught schoolchildren or who ran a school.

Schoolmistress: more commonly refers to a woman teaching in a school, occasionally the title crops up meaning a headmistress running a school.

Schrimpschonger: a craftsman who made scrimshaw items. He carved the bones and teeth of marine animals into art.

Schumacker: a Cobbler or Shoemaker.

Tabernarius: Latin word for a retailer or shopkeeper. A taberna was originally a single roomed Roman shop located inside a big indoor market.

Tabler: ran a boarding house.

Tackler: worked in the textile industry, responsible for repairing weaving looms.

Tacksman: a Scottish occupation, refers to a land holder who leases land from the owner, and sub-let to tenant farmers. May have kept some of the land to work himself.

Tailors Baster: worked for a master tailor, responsible for tacking layers of fabric together temporarily so that sewing can proceed.

Taker In: alternate term for a Taker Off, a child working in a coal mine.

Taker Off: a child working in a mine. Detached containers from a rope pulley system.

Tallow Chandler: made and sold candles, possibly also sold soaps and oils.

Tally Clerk: kept a tally of inbound and outbound goods on the wharves.

Tally Fellow: an alternate term for a Tallyman.

Tallyman: can be used as an alternate term for a Tally Clerk. In Britain a Tallyman could refer to a census taker, or more commonly to the man who collected weekly payments from the poor when they bought goods under a hire purchase scheme.

Tambour Worker: alternate term for a Tambourer, who made Tambour lace.

Tambourer: made Tambour lace by using a hook to draw threads through a fine net stretched over a frame.

Tanbark Stripper: stripped bark from oak trees to be used as tanbark, which was used for tanning leather. Tanbark would be crushed and shred in edge mills in order to extract tannins for use in the leather industry.

Tanner: worked in a tannery, turning animal hide into leather.

Tanners Beamsman: worked in a tannery. After animal hide had been soaked in a lye or lime and water solution it was held over a wooden beam and scraped with a dull knife in order to remove first the flesh and fat, and then the hair. Finally the hide was stretched on a wooden frame to dry.

Taper Weaver: made or sold wicks for candles.

Taperer: person who bore a taper (candle) in religious ceremonies.

Tapicer: wove tapestries on a vertical loom. Comes from the French word tapisser. May also have woven carpets.

Tapiter: alternate term for a Tapicer, who wove carpets or tapestries.

Tapley: made wooden pegs used in the construction of buildings in medieval times.

Tapsman: a servant who was in charge of other servants.

Tapster: served alcoholic drinks; a barkeeper.

Tarboy: attended to cut sheep during the shearing process.

Tasker: can apply to anyone who did piece-work, often refers to someone who threshed corn with a flail as piece-work.

Tasseler: made decorative tassels which were applied to furniture.

Taverner: person who kept a tavern; an innkeeper.

Tawer: alternate spelling of Tawyer, who made bleached leather.

