Ulnager: examined woollen goods for quality control.

Umbrella Tipper: fitted the metal points fabric to the frame of an umbrella.

Under Gardener: a junior gardener, often worked at a large house.

Underlay Stitcher: a Cobbler who sewed leather to make boots and shoes.

Underpresser: presses cloth and materials smooth using a steam iron.

Understudy: a junior actor who learns the part of a leading actor, so as to be able to cover the role if required.

Undertaker: a funeral director or mortician.

Underwood Dealer: similar to a Coppice Dealer.

Unfortunate: a working girl or a lady of negotiable affection to paraphrase the great Terry Pratchett.

Upholsterer: fitted padding, springs and coverings to furniture.

Upholsteress: a female upholsterer.

Upper Stitcher: a worker who sewed the leather uppers for shoes and boots.

Uptwister: worked in the textile industry, responsible for winding yarn onto the revolving spindle.

Upright Worker: a Chimney Sweep, who swept soot from chimneys in order to prevent chimney fires.

Vabster: another name for a Weaver.

Vaginarius: a Middle Age name for a craftsman who made sheaths and scabbards for blade weapons.

Valet: a male servant who acted as a personal assistant to their employer.

Valuator: appraised items to decide their current market value.

Vanman: drove a delivery vehicle to transport goods such as foodstuffs.

Varler: an alternative name for a Valet.

Vassal: a free man who was allowed to work his land in exchange for military service to his Lord.

Vatman: brewed beer or fermented wine, or someone who worked in the paper making industry.

Venator: a Roman gladiator! A great many online lists define this as a Huntsman.

Verderer: an official who policed English forests and Royal Forests set aside for hunting.

Verge Maker: a watchmaker who specialised in making spindles.

Verger: assisted in religious services.

Vermin Trapper: a pest controller.

Verrier: a French term for a glassmaker or Glazier.

Vestment Maker: a type of specialist tailor who made liturgical garments and articles for religious orders.

Vestry Messenger: Clerk, secretary or spokesman for the administrative committee of a parish or church.

Viceman: a craftsman specialised in working metal in a vice.

Victualler: a civilian merchant who sold provisions to the military. A Licensed victualler is a pub landlord.

Villein: an ordinary serf in the Middle Ages.

Vintager: harvested grapes in order to make wine.

Vinter: an alternate spelling of vintner, meaning a wine maker.

Vintner: originally meant a person who makes wine. In contemporary use it means a wine seller.

Violin string maker: made the strings for violins out of catgut - a cord made from animal intestines, usually from a pig, donkey or similar.

Virginal Player: a musician who played a virginal - a keyboard instrument from late Mediaeval and Renaissance periods.

Vocalist: a musical singer.

Vulcan: a term for a Blacksmith, possibly derived from the name of the Roman god.

Wabster: Weaver.

Wadding maker: produced wadding from cotton rags which was used for stuffing furniture.

Wafer maker: made church wafers as used in Holy Communion.

Waggoner: a wagon driver.

Wailer: a boy employed to remove contaminants from amongst the coal, such as like slate or pyrites (Coal mining industry).

Wain house proprietor: owner of a wain house, who rented out space inside where carts and wagons could be stored.

Wainius: ploughman.

Wainwright: a wagon maker.

Waiter: a Customs Officer who collected duty on imported goods which arrived with the high tide.

Waitman: night watchman.

Wakeman: another name for a Waitman.

Waker: employed to wake workers in the early morning in time for work.

Walker: another name for a Fuller, who cleaned cloth.

Walkster:: another name for a Fuller, who cleaned cloth.

Waller: a builder of walls constructed from dry stone or brick, or a person who boiled brine to extract salt.

Want Catcher: a pest exterminator who caught moles.

Wanter: another name for a Want Catcher, who caught and exterminated moles.

Warder: a guard in a prison of gaol.

Wardrobe Dealer: a second-hand clothing merchant.

Warper: worked in the textile industry responsible for loading a thread called 'warp' onto looms, or a boat hauler at a docks, port or canal basin.

Warrener: essentially farmed rabbits as a source of food. Maintained rabbit warrens and trapped and killed rabbits.

Washman: plated metal items with tin in order to protect them from rust, or improve their look or performance.

Wasteman: a person who removed industrial waste, or someone working in the mining industry responsible for keeping working areas of the mine free from gas, which could be lethal to miners.

My thanks to the The Coventry Watch Museum Project group for their assistance with the following watchmaking job definitions.

Watch Cap Maker: made the internal movement cover of a watch.

Watch Case Joint Finisher: assembled the components of pocket watch cases.

Watch Dial Enameller: enamelled the watch face white and the numbers in black enamel.

Watch Dial Painter: used a very fine brush to paint numbers on the watch face.

Watch Engine Turner: engraved patterns on the backs of watchcases.

Watch Examiner: finished the watch by fitting the hands, regulating the watch.

Xylographer: engraved patterns in wood. This includes engraving the letters in blocks for use in block printing.

Xylopola: a merchant who dealt in wood.

Yagger: a fish merchant or Pedlar.

Yardman: another name for a farm Labourer, or a man who worked for the railway in the goods or engine yards.

Yarn Bleacher: worked in the textile industry, responsible for bleaching fibres such as flax etc.

Yarn Dresser: worked in the textile industry, responsible for preparing flax fibres.

Yatman: another name for a gatekeeper.

Yearman: a man contracted for a year's labour. The term often but not exclusively used in the agriculture industry.

Yeoman: in its earliest form, a servant. From Middle Ages, means a man who accompanied a warrior, similar to a squire. For family tree researchers, the term usually comes up prior to the 18th century meaning a class of farmer who owned their land in some form, as opposed to being tenant farmers. The term may also crop up as a military or naval rank.

Yowler: - a Thatcher's assistant.

Zigarius: a Romanian Gypsy. The word is related to Szgany.

Zinc Worker: Zinc was used for soldering metalwork. Some Zinc Workers were employed in the building industry to solder metal guttering or water and gas pipework / plumbing. This occupational title also crops up in relation to packing crates, in which case it seems that the Zinc Worker soldered crates prior to shipping in order to protect goods in transit. The title can refer to someone who made artistic items out of spelter such as art deco candlesticks or clock cases. Finally the term could refer to a person who extracted zinc from ore, or the person who made spelter, which is an alloy of copper and zinc.

Zincographer: worked in the printing industry, responsible for etching the zinc plates.

Zitherist: a musician who played the zither, a stringed musical instrument from Europe.

Zoetrope Maker: a person who made zoetropes. These novelty devices provide the illusion of movement from a series of static pictures which are rotated quickly.

Zoographer: a specialist who classifies animals and records their habitats and behaviours.

Zythepsarist: brewed alcohol.